docs/en/quickstart/sdk/go_sdk.md, before:

# Go SDK

## Requirement

- OpenMLDB version: >= v0.6.2

- Deploy and run APIServer (refer to [APIServer deployment](https://openmldb.ai/docs/zh/main/deploy/install_deploy.html#apiserver) document)

## Go SDK package installment

```bash
go get github.com/4paradigm/OpenMLDB/go
```

## Go SDK usage

This section describes the basic use of Go SDK.

### Connect to OpenMLDB

The Go SDK needs to be connected to the API server.

```Go
db, err := sql.Open("openmldb", "openmldb://127.0.0.1:8080/test_db")
```

The format of data source (DSN) is:

```plain
openmldb://API_SERVER_HOST[:API_SERVER_PORT]/DB_NAME
```

You must connect to an existing database.

### Create Table

Create a table `demo`:

```Go
db.ExecContext(ctx, "CREATE TABLE demo(c1 int, c2 string);")
```

### Insert data

Insert date into table:

```go
db.ExecContext(ctx, `INSERT INTO demo VALUES (1, "bb"), (2, "bb");`)
```

### Query

```go
rows, err := db.QueryContext(ctx, `SELECT c1, c2 FROM demo;`)
if err != nil{
  panic(err)
}

var col1 int
var col2 string

for rows.Next() {
  if err := rows.Scan(&col1, &col2); err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }
  // process row ...
}
```

## Example

```Go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "database/sql"

  // 加载 OpenMLDB SDK
  _ "github.com/4paradigm/OpenMLDB/go"
)

func main() {
  db, err := sql.Open("openmldb", "openmldb://127.0.0.1:8080/test_db")
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  defer db.Close()

  ctx := context.Background()

  if _, err := db.ExecContext(ctx, `CREATE TABLE demo (c1 int, c2 string);`); err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  if _, err := db.ExecContext(ctx, `INSERT INTO demo VALUES (1, "bb"), (2, "bb");`); err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  rows, err := db.QueryContext(ctx, `SELECT c1, c2 FROM demo;`)
  if err != nil{
    panic(err)
  }

  var col1 int
  var col2 string

  for rows.Next() {
    if err := rows.Scan(&col1, &col2); err != nil {
      panic(err)
    }
    println(col1, col2)
  }
}
```

Commit message:

docs: update the quickstart and sdk folder (#3537)
* Docs: Update-quickstart-sdk-folder

* Docs: update-quickstart-sdk-index-file

* Update compile.md

Update referred document to the latest

* Update cxx_sdk.md with recent updates

* Update go_sdk.md

* Update rest_api.md

* Update java_sdk.md to most recent upate

* Update python_sdk.md to most recent updates

* Update python_sdk.md image reference link

---------

Co-authored-by: Siqi Wang <sqwang9999@gmail.com>

docs/en/quickstart/sdk/go_sdk.md, after:

# [Alpha] Go SDK
```plain
The current functionality support of the Go SDK is not yet complete. It is currently only recommended for development, testing, or specific use cases. It is not recommended for use in a production environment. For production use, we recommend using the Java SDK, which has the most comprehensive feature coverage and has undergone extensive testing for both functionality and performance.
```
## Requirement

- OpenMLDB version: >= v0.6.2

- Deploy and run APIServer (refer to [APIServer deployment](../../main/deploy/install_deploy.html#apiserver) document)

## Go SDK installation

```bash
go get github.com/4paradigm/OpenMLDB/go
```

## Go SDK usage

This section describes the basic use of Go SDK.

### Connect to OpenMLDB

The Go SDK needs to be connected to the API server.

```Go
db, err := sql.Open("openmldb", "openmldb://127.0.0.1:8080/test_db")
```

The format of data source (DSN) is:

```plain
openmldb://API_SERVER_HOST[:API_SERVER_PORT]/DB_NAME
```

You must connect to an existing database.

### Create Table

Create a table `demo`:

```Go
db.ExecContext(ctx, "CREATE TABLE demo(c1 int, c2 string);")
```

### Insert data

Insert date into table:

```go
db.ExecContext(ctx, `INSERT INTO demo VALUES (1, "bb"), (2, "bb");`)
```

### Query

```go
rows, err := db.QueryContext(ctx, `SELECT c1, c2 FROM demo;`)
if err != nil{
  panic(err)
}

var col1 int
var col2 string

for rows.Next() {
  if err := rows.Scan(&col1, &col2); err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }
  // process row ...
}
```

## Example

```Go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "database/sql"

  // Load OpenMLDB SDK
  _ "github.com/4paradigm/OpenMLDB/go"
)

func main() {
  db, err := sql.Open("openmldb", "openmldb://127.0.0.1:8080/test_db")
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  defer db.Close()

  ctx := context.Background()

  if _, err := db.ExecContext(ctx, `CREATE TABLE demo (c1 int, c2 string);`); err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  if _, err := db.ExecContext(ctx, `INSERT INTO demo VALUES (1, "bb"), (2, "bb");`); err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  rows, err := db.QueryContext(ctx, `SELECT c1, c2 FROM demo;`)
  if err != nil{
    panic(err)
  }

  var col1 int
  var col2 string

  for rows.Next() {
    if err := rows.Scan(&col1, &col2); err != nil {
      panic(err)
    }
    println(col1, col2)
  }
}
```
