docs/en/quickstart/python_sdk.md, before:

# Python SDK Quickstart

## 1. Install the Python SDK Package

Install using `pip`.

```bash
pip install openmldb
````

## 2. OpenMLDB DBAPI

### 2.1 Create Connection

When creating the connection, the database name is not required to exist. If it does not exist, you need to create the database after the connection is created.

````python
import openmldb.dbapi

db = openmldb.dbapi.connect(database="db1", zk="$zkcluster", zkPath="$zkpath")

cursor = db.cursor()
````

### 2.2 Create Database

````python
cursor.execute("CREATE DATABASE db1")
````

### 2.3 Create Table

````python
cursor.execute("CREATE TABLE t1 (col1 bigint, col2 date, col3 string, col4 string, col5 int, index(key=col3, ts=col1))")
````

### 2.4 Insert Data to Table

````python
cursor.execute("INSERT INTO t1 VALUES(1000, '2020-12-25', 'guangdon', 'shenzhen', 1)")
````

### 2.5 Execute SQL Query

````python
result = cursor.execute("SELECT * FROM t1")
print(result.fetchone())
print(result.fetchmany(10))
print(result.fetchall())
````

### 2.6 Delete Table

````python
cursor.execute("DROP TABLE t1")
````

### 2.7 Delete Database

````python
cursor.execute("DROP DATABASE db1")
````

### 2.8 Close the Connection

````python
cursor.close()
````

## 3. OpenMLDB SQLAlchemy

### 3.1 Create Connection

`create_engine('openmldb:///db_name?zk=zkcluster&zkPath=zkpath')`
When creating the connection, the database is not required to exist. If it does not exist, you need to create the database after the connection is created.

````python
import sqlalchemy as db

engine = db.create_engine('openmldb:///db1?zk=127.0.0.1:2181&zkPath=/openmldb')
connection = engine.connect()
````

### 3.2 Create Database

Create a database using the `connection.execute()`:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("CREATE DATABASE db1");
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.3 Create Table

Create a table using the `connection.execute()`:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("CREATE TABLE t1 ( col1 bigint, col2 date, col3 string, col4 string, col5 int, index(key=col3, ts=col1))")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.4 Insert Data into the Table

Using the `connection.execute(ddl)` to execute the SQL insert statement to insert data to the table:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("INSERT INTO t1 VALUES(1000, '2020-12-25', 'guangdon', 'shenzhen', 1);")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

Using the `connection.execute(ddl, data)` to execute the insert statement of SQL with the placeholder, and the inserted data can be dynamically specified:

````python
try:
    insert = "INSERT INTO t1 VALUES(1002, '2020-12-27', ?, ?, 3);"
    connection.execute(insert, ({"col3":"fujian", "col4":"fuzhou"}))
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.5 Execute SQL Batch Query

Using the `connection.execute(sql)` to execute SQL batch query statements:

````python
try:
    rs = connection.execute("SELECT * FROM t1");
    for row in rs:
        print(row)
    rs = connection.execute("SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE col3 = ?;", ('hefei'))
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.6 Execute SQL Queries in the Request Mode

Using the `connection.execute(sql, request)` to execute SQLs in the request mode. You can put the input request row in the second parameter.

````python
try:
   rs = connection.execute("SELECT * FROM t1", ({"col1":9999, "col2":'2020-12-27', "col3":'zhejiang', "col4":'hangzhou', " col5":100}));
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.7 Delete Table

Using the `connection.execute(ddl)` interface to delete a table:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("DROP TABLE t1")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.8 Delete Database

Using the `connection.execute(ddl)` interface to delete a database:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("DROP DATABASE db1")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

## 4. Notebook Magic Function

OpenMLDB Python SDK supports Notebook magic function extension, you can use the following statement to register the function.

````python
import openmldb

db = openmldb.dbapi.connect(database='demo_db',zk='0.0.0.0:2181',zkPath='/openmldb')
openmldb.sql_magic.register(db)
````

The line magic function `%sql` and block magic function `%%sql` can then be used in Notebook.

![img](images/openmldb_magic_function.png)

Commit message:

docs: improve install deploy and client (#2653)

docs/en/quickstart/python_sdk.md, after:

# Python SDK Quickstart

## 1. Install the Python SDK Package

Install using `pip`.

```bash
pip install openmldb
```

## 2. OpenMLDB DBAPI

### 2.1 Create Connection

When creating the connection, the database name is not required to exist. If it does not exist, you need to create the database after the connection is created.

````python
import openmldb.dbapi

db = openmldb.dbapi.connect(database="db1", zk="$zkcluster", zkPath="$zkpath")

cursor = db.cursor()
````

### 2.2 Create Database

````python
cursor.execute("CREATE DATABASE db1")
````

### 2.3 Create Table

````python
cursor.execute("CREATE TABLE t1 (col1 bigint, col2 date, col3 string, col4 string, col5 int, index(key=col3, ts=col1))")
````

### 2.4 Insert Data to Table

````python
cursor.execute("INSERT INTO t1 VALUES(1000, '2020-12-25', 'guangdon', 'shenzhen', 1)")
````

### 2.5 Execute SQL Query

````python
result = cursor.execute("SELECT * FROM t1")
print(result.fetchone())
print(result.fetchmany(10))
print(result.fetchall())
````

### 2.6 Delete Table

````python
cursor.execute("DROP TABLE t1")
````

### 2.7 Delete Database

````python
cursor.execute("DROP DATABASE db1")
````

### 2.8 Close the Connection

````python
cursor.close()
````

## 3. OpenMLDB SQLAlchemy

### 3.1 Create Connection

`create_engine('openmldb:///db_name?zk=zkcluster&zkPath=zkpath')`
When creating the connection, the database is not required to exist. If it does not exist, you need to create the database after the connection is created.

````python
import sqlalchemy as db

engine = db.create_engine('openmldb:///db1?zk=127.0.0.1:2181&zkPath=/openmldb')
connection = engine.connect()
````

### 3.2 Create Database

Create a database using the `connection.execute()`:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("CREATE DATABASE db1");
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.3 Create Table

Create a table using the `connection.execute()`:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("CREATE TABLE t1 ( col1 bigint, col2 date, col3 string, col4 string, col5 int, index(key=col3, ts=col1))")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.4 Insert Data into the Table

Using the `connection.execute(ddl)` to execute the SQL insert statement to insert data to the table:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("INSERT INTO t1 VALUES(1000, '2020-12-25', 'guangdon', 'shenzhen', 1);")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

Using the `connection.execute(ddl, data)` to execute the insert statement of SQL with the placeholder, and the inserted data can be dynamically specified:

````python
try:
    insert = "INSERT INTO t1 VALUES(1002, '2020-12-27', ?, ?, 3);"
    connection.execute(insert, ({"col3":"fujian", "col4":"fuzhou"}))
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.5 Execute SQL Batch Query

Using the `connection.execute(sql)` to execute SQL batch query statements:

````python
try:
    rs = connection.execute("SELECT * FROM t1");
    for row in rs:
        print(row)
    rs = connection.execute("SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE col3 = ?;", ('hefei'))
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.6 Execute SQL Queries in the Request Mode

Using the `connection.execute(sql, request)` to execute SQLs in the request mode. You can put the input request row in the second parameter.

````python
try:
   rs = connection.execute("SELECT * FROM t1", ({"col1":9999, "col2":'2020-12-27', "col3":'zhejiang', "col4":'hangzhou', " col5":100}));
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.7 Delete Table

Using the `connection.execute(ddl)` interface to delete a table:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("DROP TABLE t1")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

### 3.8 Delete Database

Using the `connection.execute(ddl)` interface to delete a database:

````python
try:
    connection.execute("DROP DATABASE db1")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
````

## 4. Notebook Magic Function

OpenMLDB Python SDK supports Notebook magic function extension, you can use the following statement to register the function.

````python
import openmldb

db = openmldb.dbapi.connect(database='demo_db',zk='0.0.0.0:2181',zkPath='/openmldb')
openmldb.sql_magic.register(db)
````

The line magic function `%sql` and block magic function `%%sql` can then be used in Notebook.

![img](images/openmldb_magic_function.png)

## 5. Option

Connect to cluster must set `zk` and `zkPath`.

Connect to standalone must set `host` and `port`.

Whether use dbapi or url to start Python client, optional options are the same with JAVA client, ref[JAVA SDK Option](./java_sdk.md#5-sdk-option)。

## Q&A
Q: How to solve `ImportError: dlopen(.._sql_router_sdk.so, 2): initializer function 0xnnnn not in mapped image for ` when use sqlalchemy?
A: The problem often happends when you import other complicate libs with `import openmldb`, the dl load is wrong. Please use the virtual env(e.g. conda) to test it, and make `import openmldb` to be the 1st import and `import sqlalchemy` to be the 2rd.

If it can't help, please use `request` http to connect the apiserver.

Q: How to solve the protobuf error?
```
[libprotobuf FATAL /Users/runner/work/crossbow/crossbow/vcpkg/buildtrees/protobuf/src/23fa7edd52-3ba2225d30.clean/src/google/protobuf/stubs/common.cc:87] This program was compiled against version 3.6.1 of the Protocol Buffer runtime library, which is not compatible with the installed version (3.15.8).  Contact the program author for an update. ...
```
A: Maybe other libs includes a different version of protobuf, try virtual env(e.g. conda).
