docs/en/reference/sql/deployment_manage/DEPLOY_STATEMENT.md, before:

# DEPLOY

## Syntax

```sql
CreateDeploymentStmt
				::= 'DEPLOY' [DeployOptionList] DeploymentName SelectStmt

DeployOptionList
				::= DeployOption*
				    
DeployOption
				::= 'OPTIONS' '(' DeployOptionItem (',' DeployOptionItem)* ')'
				    
DeploymentName
				::= identifier
```

Please refer to [DEPLOYMENT Property DeployOptions (optional)](#deployoptions-optional) for the definition of `DeployOptions`.
Please refer to [Select Statement](../dql/SELECT_STATEMENT.md) for the definition of `SelectStmt`.


The `DEPLOY` statement is used to deploy SQL online. OpenMLDB supports to deploy [Select Statement](../dql/SELECT_STATEMENT.md), and the SQL script should meet the requirements in [OpenMLDB SQL Requirement](../deployment_manage/ONLINE_SERVING_REQUIREMENTS.md)



**Example**


The following commands deploy a SQL script online under the Online Request mode of cluster version.
```sql
CREATE DATABASE db1;
-- SUCCEED

USE db1;
-- SUCCEED: Database changed

CREATE TABLE demo_table1(c1 string, c2 int, c3 bigint, c4 float, c5 double, c6 timestamp, c7 date);
-- SUCCEED: Create successfully

DEPLOY demo_deploy SELECT c1, c2, sum(c3) OVER w1 AS w1_c3_sum FROM demo_table1 WINDOW w1 AS (PARTITION BY demo_table1.c1 ORDER BY demo_table1.c6 ROWS BETWEEN 2 PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW);

-- SUCCEED
```

We can use `SHOW DEPLOYMENT demo_deploy` command to see the detail of a specific deployment.

```sql
 --------- -------------------
  DB        Deployment
 --------- -------------------
  demo_db   demo_deploy
 --------- -------------------
1 row in set
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SQL
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DEPLOY demo_data_service SELECT
  c1,
  c2,
  sum(c3) OVER (w1) AS w1_c3_sum
FROM
  demo_table1
WINDOW w1 AS (PARTITION BY demo_table1.c1
  ORDER BY demo_table1.c6 ROWS BETWEEN 2 PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW)
;
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 row in set
# Input Schema
 --- ------- ------------ ------------
  #   Field   Type         IsConstant
 --- ------- ------------ ------------
  1   c1      Varchar     NO
  2   c2      Int32       NO
  3   c3      Int64       NO
  4   c4      Float       NO
  5   c5      Double      NO
  6   c6      Timestamp   NO
  7   c7      Date        NO
 --- ------- ------------ ------------

# Output Schema
 --- ----------- ---------- ------------
  #   Field       Type       IsConstant
 --- ----------- ---------- ------------
  1   c1          Varchar   NO
  2   c2          Int32     NO
  3   w1_c3_sum   Int64     NO
 --- ----------- ---------- ------------ 
```


### DeployOptions (optional)

```sql
DeployOption
						::= 'OPTIONS' '(' DeployOptionItem (',' DeployOptionItem)* ')'

DeployOptionItem
						::= LongWindowOption

LongWindowOption
						::= 'LONG_WINDOWS' '=' LongWindowDefinitions
```
Currently, only the optimization option of long windows `LONG_WINDOWS` is supported.

#### Long Window Optimization
```sql
LongWindowDefinitions
					::= 'LongWindowDefinition (, LongWindowDefinition)*'

LongWindowDefinition
					::= WindowName':'[BucketSize]

WindowName
					::= string_literal

BucketSize
					::= int_literal | interval_literal

interval_literal ::= int_literal 's'|'m'|'h'|'d'
```

`BucketSize` is a performance optimization option. Data will be pre-aggregated according to `BucketSize`. The default value is `1d`.



##### Limitation 

The current long window optimization has the following limitations:
- Only `SelectStmt` involving one physical table is supported, i.e. `SelectStmt` containing `join` or `union` is not supported.

- Supported aggregation operations include: `sum`, `avg`, `count`, `min`, `max`, `count_where`, `min_where`, `max_where`, `sum_where`, `avg_where`.

- The table should be empty when executing the `deploy` command.

- For commands with `where` condition, like `count_where`, `min_where`, `max_where`, `sum_where`, `avg_where`, there are extra limitations：

  1. The main table should be a memory table (`storage_mode = 'Memory'`).

  2. The type of `BucketSize`  should be range type, that is its value should be `interval_literal`. For example, `long_windows='w1:1d'` is supported, whereas `long_windows='w1:100'` is not supported.

  3. The expression for `where` should be the format of `<column ref> op <const value>` or `<const value> op <column ref>`

     - Supported where op: `>, <, >=, <=, =, !=`.

     - The `<column ref>` should not be `date` type or timestamp.

- It requires the data is loaded in the increasing order of the `timestamp` column for getting the best performance boost.

**Example**

```sql
DEPLOY demo_deploy OPTIONS(long_windows="w1:1d") SELECT c1, sum(c2) OVER w1 FROM demo_table1
    WINDOW w1 AS (PARTITION BY c1 ORDER BY c2 ROWS_RANGE BETWEEN 5d PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW);
-- SUCCEED
```


## Relevant SQL

[USE DATABASE](../ddl/USE_DATABASE_STATEMENT.md)

[SHOW DEPLOYMENT](../deployment_manage/SHOW_DEPLOYMENT.md)

[DROP DEPLOYMENT](../deployment_manage/DROP_DEPLOYMENT_STATEMENT.md)

Commit message:

feat: add `skip_index_check` option (#3241)

docs/en/reference/sql/deployment_manage/DEPLOY_STATEMENT.md, after:

# DEPLOY

## Syntax

```sql
CreateDeploymentStmt
				::= 'DEPLOY' [DeployOptionList] DeploymentName SelectStmt

DeployOptionList
				::= DeployOption*
				    
DeployOption
				::= 'OPTIONS' '(' DeployOptionItem (',' DeployOptionItem)* ')'
				    
DeploymentName
				::= identifier
```

Please refer to [DEPLOYMENT Property DeployOptions (optional)](#deployoptions-optional) for the definition of `DeployOptions`.
Please refer to [Select Statement](../dql/SELECT_STATEMENT.md) for the definition of `SelectStmt`.


The `DEPLOY` statement is used to deploy SQL online. OpenMLDB supports to deploy [Select Statement](../dql/SELECT_STATEMENT.md), and the SQL script should meet the requirements in [OpenMLDB SQL Requirement](../deployment_manage/ONLINE_SERVING_REQUIREMENTS.md)



**Example**


The following commands deploy a SQL script online under the Online Request mode of cluster version.
```sql
CREATE DATABASE db1;
-- SUCCEED

USE db1;
-- SUCCEED: Database changed

CREATE TABLE demo_table1(c1 string, c2 int, c3 bigint, c4 float, c5 double, c6 timestamp, c7 date);
-- SUCCEED: Create successfully

DEPLOY demo_deploy SELECT c1, c2, sum(c3) OVER w1 AS w1_c3_sum FROM demo_table1 WINDOW w1 AS (PARTITION BY demo_table1.c1 ORDER BY demo_table1.c6 ROWS BETWEEN 2 PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW);

-- SUCCEED
```

We can use `SHOW DEPLOYMENT demo_deploy` command to see the detail of a specific deployment.

```sql
 --------- -------------------
  DB        Deployment
 --------- -------------------
  demo_db   demo_deploy
 --------- -------------------
1 row in set
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SQL
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DEPLOY demo_data_service SELECT
  c1,
  c2,
  sum(c3) OVER (w1) AS w1_c3_sum
FROM
  demo_table1
WINDOW w1 AS (PARTITION BY demo_table1.c1
  ORDER BY demo_table1.c6 ROWS BETWEEN 2 PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW)
;
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 row in set
# Input Schema
 --- ------- ------------ ------------
  #   Field   Type         IsConstant
 --- ------- ------------ ------------
  1   c1      Varchar     NO
  2   c2      Int32       NO
  3   c3      Int64       NO
  4   c4      Float       NO
  5   c5      Double      NO
  6   c6      Timestamp   NO
  7   c7      Date        NO
 --- ------- ------------ ------------

# Output Schema
 --- ----------- ---------- ------------
  #   Field       Type       IsConstant
 --- ----------- ---------- ------------
  1   c1          Varchar   NO
  2   c2          Int32     NO
  3   w1_c3_sum   Int64     NO
 --- ----------- ---------- ------------ 
```


### DeployOptions (optional)

```sql
DeployOption
						::= 'OPTIONS' '(' DeployOptionItem (',' DeployOptionItem)* ')'

DeployOptionItem
            ::= 'LONG_WINDOWS' '=' LongWindowDefinitions
            | 'SKIP_INDEX_CHECK' '=' string_literal
```

#### Long Window Optimization
```sql
LongWindowDefinitions
					::= 'LongWindowDefinition (, LongWindowDefinition)*'

LongWindowDefinition
					::= WindowName':'[BucketSize]

WindowName
					::= string_literal

BucketSize
					::= int_literal | interval_literal

interval_literal ::= int_literal 's'|'m'|'h'|'d'
```

`BucketSize` is a performance optimization option. Data will be pre-aggregated according to `BucketSize`. The default value is `1d`.



##### Limitation 

The current long window optimization has the following limitations:
- Only `SelectStmt` involving one physical table is supported, i.e. `SelectStmt` containing `join` or `union` is not supported.

- Supported aggregation operations include: `sum`, `avg`, `count`, `min`, `max`, `count_where`, `min_where`, `max_where`, `sum_where`, `avg_where`.

- The table should be empty when executing the `deploy` command.

- For commands with `where` condition, like `count_where`, `min_where`, `max_where`, `sum_where`, `avg_where`, there are extra limitations：

  1. The main table should be a memory table (`storage_mode = 'Memory'`).

  2. The type of `BucketSize`  should be range type, that is its value should be `interval_literal`. For example, `long_windows='w1:1d'` is supported, whereas `long_windows='w1:100'` is not supported.

  3. The expression for `where` should be the format of `<column ref> op <const value>` or `<const value> op <column ref>`

     - Supported where op: `>, <, >=, <=, =, !=`.

     - The `<column ref>` should not be `date` type or timestamp.

- It requires the data is loaded in the increasing order of the `timestamp` column for getting the best performance boost.

**Example**

```sql
DEPLOY demo_deploy OPTIONS(long_windows="w1:1d") SELECT c1, sum(c2) OVER w1 FROM demo_table1
    WINDOW w1 AS (PARTITION BY c1 ORDER BY c2 ROWS_RANGE BETWEEN 5d PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW);
-- SUCCEED
```

#### Skip Index Check

By default, the value of `SKIP_INDEX_CHECK` option is `false`. It means that when deploying SQL, it will check whether the existing index
is match the required index. An error will be reported if it does not matched. If this option is set to `true`, the existing index will not be verified and modified when deploying.

**Example**
```sql
DEPLOY demo OPTIONS (SKIP_INDEX_CHECK="TRUE")
    SELECT * FROM t1 LAST JOIN t2 ORDER BY t2.col3 ON t1.col1 = t2.col1;
```

## Relevant SQL

[USE DATABASE](../ddl/USE_DATABASE_STATEMENT.md)

[SHOW DEPLOYMENT](../deployment_manage/SHOW_DEPLOYMENT.md)

[DROP DEPLOYMENT](../deployment_manage/DROP_DEPLOYMENT_STATEMENT.md)
