docs/en/reference/sql/dml/LOAD_DATA_STATEMENT.md, before:

# LOAD DATA INFILE

The `LOAD DATA INFILE` statement load data efficiently from a file to a table. `LOAD DATA INFILE` is complementary to `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE`. To export data from a table to a file, use [SELECT...INTO OUTFILE](../dql/SELECT_INTO_STATEMENT.md).

## Syntax

```sql
LoadDataInfileStmt
				::= 'LOAD' 'DATA' 'INFILE' filePath 'INTO' 'TABLE' tableName LoadDataInfileOptionsList

filePath 
				::= URI
				    
tableName
				::= string_literal

LoadDataInfileOptionsList
				::= 'OPTIONS' '(' LoadDataInfileOptionItem (',' LoadDataInfileOptionItem)* ')'

LoadDataInfileOptionItem
				::= 'DELIMITER' '=' string_literal
				|'HEADER' '=' bool_literal
				|'NULL_VALUE' '=' string_literal
				|'FORMAT' '=' string_literal						
				|'QUOTE' '=' string_literal
				|'MODE' '=' string_literal
				|'DEEP_COPY' '=' bool_literal
				|'LOAD_MODE' '=' string_literal
				|'THREAD' '=' int_literal

URI
				::= 'file://FilePathPattern'
				|'hdfs://FilePathPattern'
				|'hive://[db.]table'
				|'FilePathPattern'

FilePathPattern
				::= string_literal
```
The `FilePathPattern` supports wildcard character `*`, with the same match rules as `ls FilePathPattern`.

Supports loading data from Hive, but needs extra settings, see [Hive Support](#Hive-support).

The following table introduces the parameters of `LOAD DATA INFILE`.

| Parameter  | Type    | Default Value     | Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ---------- | ------- | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| delimiter  | String  | ,                 | It defines the column separator, the default value is `,`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| header     | Boolean | true              | It indicates that whether the table to import has a header. If the value is `true`, the table has a header.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| null_value | String  | null              | It defines the string that will be used to replace the `NULL` value when loading data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| format     | String  | csv               | It defines the format of the input file.<br />`csv` is the default format. <br />`parquet` format is supported in the cluster version.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| quote      | String  | ""                | It defines the string surrounding the input data. The string length should be <= 1. The default is "", which means that the string surrounding the input data is empty. When the surrounding string is configured, the content surrounded by a pair of the quote characters will be parsed as a whole. For example, if the surrounding string is `"#"` then the original data like `1, 1.0, #This is a string, with comma#` will be converted to three field. The first field is an integer 1, the second is a float 1.0 and the third field is a string.                                          |
| mode       | String  | "error_if_exists" | It defines the input mode.<br />`error_if_exists` is the default mode which indicates that an error will be thrown out if the offline table already has data. This input mode is only supported by the offline execution mode.<br />`overwrite` indicates that if the file already exists, the data will overwrite the contents of the original file. This input mode is only supported by the offline execution mode.<br />`append` indicates that if the table already exists, the data will be appended to the original table. Both offline and online execution modes support this input mode. |
| deep_copy  | Boolean | true              | It defines whether `deep_copy` is used. Only offline load supports `deep_copy=false`, you can specify the `INFILE` path as the offline storage address of the table to avoid hard copy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| load_mode  | String  | cluster           | `load_mode='local'` only supports loading the `csv` local files into the `online` storage; It loads the data synchronously by the client process. <br /> `load_mode='cluster'` only supports the cluster version. It loads the data via Spark synchronously or asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| thread     | Integer | 1                 | It only works for data loading locally, i.e., `load_mode='local'` or in the standalone version; It defines the number of threads used for data loading. The max value is `50`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

```{note}
- In the cluster version, the specified execution mode (defined by `execute_mode`) determines whether to import data to online or offline storage when the `LOAD DATA INFILE` statement is executed. For the standalone version, there is no difference in storage mode and the `deep_copy` option is not supported.

- As metioned in the above table, online execution mode only supports append input mode.

- When `deep_copy=false`, OpenMLDB doesn't support to modify the data in the soft link. Therefore, if the current offline data comes from a soft link, `append` import is no longer supported. Moreover, if current connection is soft copy, using the hard copy with `overwrite` will not delete the data of the soft connection.

```

```{warning} INFILE Path
:class: warning

In the cluster version，if `load_mode='cluster'`，the reading of the `INFILE` path is done by a batch job. If it is a relative path, it needs to be an accessible path. However, in a production environment, the execution of batch jobs is usually scheduled by a yarn cluster. As a result, it is not deterministic that which batch job will actually perform the task. In a testing environment, if it's multi-machine deployment, it is also unable to determine where the batch job is running.

Therefore, you are suggested to use absolute paths. In the stand-alone version, the local file path starts with `file://`. In the production environment, it is recommended to use a file system such as *HDFS*.

```
## SQL Statement Template

```sql
LOAD DATA INFILE 'file_name' INTO TABLE 'table_name' OPTIONS (key = value, ...);
```

### Example

The following sql example imports data from a file `data.csv` into a table `t1` using online storage. `data.csv` uses `,` as the column separator.

```sql
set @@execute_mode='online';
LOAD DATA INFILE 'data.csv' INTO TABLE t1 OPTIONS( delimiter = ',' );
```

The following SQL example imports data from file `data.csv` into table `t1`. `data.csv` uses `,` as the column delimiter. The null value will be replaced by a string "NA".

```sql
LOAD DATA INFILE 'data.csv' INTO TABLE t1 OPTIONS( delimiter = ',', null_value='NA');
```

The following example shows an example of soft copy.
```sql
set @@execute_mode='offline';
LOAD DATA INFILE 'data_path' INTO TABLE t1 OPTIONS(deep_copy=false);
```

## Hive Support

### Hive Data Format

We support the Hive data format below，others are unsupported(e.g. Binary).

| OpenMLDB Data Format | Hive Data Format |
| -------------------- | ---------------- |
| BOOL                 | BOOLEAN          |
| SMALLINT             | SMALLINT         |
| INT                  | INT              |
| BIGINT               | BIGINT           |
| FLOAT                | FLOAT            |
| DOUBLE               | DOUBLE           |
| DATE                 | DATE             |
| TIMESTAMP            | TIMESTAMP        |

### Enable Hive Support

To support Hive, we need Hive dependencies and Hive conf.

#### Hive dependencies in Spark

[OpenMLDB Spark](../../../tutorial/openmldbspark_distribution.md) v0.6.7 and above have the Hive dependencies. If you use other Spark release, you should build Hive dependencies in spark, dependencies are in `assembly/target/scala-xx/jars`. Add them to Spark class path.

```
./build/mvn -Pyarn -Phive -Phive-thriftserver -DskipTests clean package
```

#### Hive Conf

We support connect Hive by metastore service.

- spark.conf

	You can set `spark.hadoop.Hive.metastore.uris` in Spark conf. 
	- taskmanager.properties: add `spark.hadoop.Hive.metastore.uris=thrift://...` in `spark.default.conf`, then restart the taskmanager
	- CLI: add it in ini conf, use `--spark_conf` to start the CLI, ref [Spark Client Configuration](../../client_config/client_spark_config.md).

- Hive-site.xml:

	You can set `Hive.metastore.uris` in `Hive-site.xml` and add it to Spark home `conf/`.

	The `Hive-site.xml` example:
	```
	<configuration>
	<property>
		<name>Hive.metastore.uris</name>
		<!--Make sure that <value> points to the Hive Metastore URI in your cluster -->
		<value>thrift://localhost:9083</value>
		<description>URI for client to contact metastore server</description>
	</property>
	</configuration>
	```

Commit message:

docs: csv format of load data source (#3016)

docs/en/reference/sql/dml/LOAD_DATA_STATEMENT.md, after:

# LOAD DATA INFILE

The `LOAD DATA INFILE` statement load data efficiently from a file to a table. `LOAD DATA INFILE` is complementary to `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE`. To export data from a table to a file, use [SELECT...INTO OUTFILE](../dql/SELECT_INTO_STATEMENT.md).

## Syntax

```sql
LoadDataInfileStmt
				::= 'LOAD' 'DATA' 'INFILE' filePath 'INTO' 'TABLE' tableName LoadDataInfileOptionsList

filePath 
				::= URI
				    
tableName
				::= string_literal

LoadDataInfileOptionsList
				::= 'OPTIONS' '(' LoadDataInfileOptionItem (',' LoadDataInfileOptionItem)* ')'

LoadDataInfileOptionItem
				::= 'DELIMITER' '=' string_literal
				|'HEADER' '=' bool_literal
				|'NULL_VALUE' '=' string_literal
				|'FORMAT' '=' string_literal						
				|'QUOTE' '=' string_literal
				|'MODE' '=' string_literal
				|'DEEP_COPY' '=' bool_literal
				|'LOAD_MODE' '=' string_literal
				|'THREAD' '=' int_literal

URI
				::= 'file://FilePathPattern'
				|'hdfs://FilePathPattern'
				|'hive://[db.]table'
				|'FilePathPattern'

FilePathPattern
				::= string_literal
```
The `FilePathPattern` supports wildcard character `*`, with the same match rules as `ls FilePathPattern`.

Supports loading data from Hive, but needs extra settings, see [Hive Support](#Hive-support).

The following table introduces the parameters of `LOAD DATA INFILE`.

| Parameter  | Type    | Default Value     | Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ---------- | ------- | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| delimiter  | String  | ,                 | It defines the column separator, the default value is `,`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| header     | Boolean | true              | It indicates that whether the table to import has a header. If the value is `true`, the table has a header.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| null_value | String  | null              | It defines the string that will be used to replace the `NULL` value when loading data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| format     | String  | csv               | It defines the format of the input file.<br />`csv` is the default format. <br />`parquet` format is supported in the cluster version.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| quote      | String  | "                | It defines the string surrounding the input data. The string length should be <= 1. <br />load_mode='cluster': default is `"`, the content surrounded by a pair of the quote characters will be parsed as a whole. For example, if the surrounding string is `"#"` then the original data like `1, 1.0, #This is a string, with comma#, normal_string` will be converted to four fields. The first field is an integer 1, the second is a float 1.0, the third field is a string "This is a string, with comma" and the 4th is "normal_string" even it's no quote. <br /> load_mode='local': default is `\0`, which means that the string surrounding the input data is empty. |
| mode       | String  | "error_if_exists" | It defines the input mode.<br />`error_if_exists` is the default mode which indicates that an error will be thrown out if the offline table already has data. This input mode is only supported by the offline execution mode.<br />`overwrite` indicates that if the file already exists, the data will overwrite the contents of the original file. This input mode is only supported by the offline execution mode.<br />`append` indicates that if the table already exists, the data will be appended to the original table. Both offline and online execution modes support this input mode. |
| deep_copy  | Boolean | true              | It defines whether `deep_copy` is used. Only offline load supports `deep_copy=false`, you can specify the `INFILE` path as the offline storage address of the table to avoid hard copy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| load_mode  | String  | cluster           | `load_mode='local'` only supports loading the `csv` local files into the `online` storage; It loads the data synchronously by the client process. <br /> `load_mode='cluster'` only supports the cluster version. It loads the data via Spark synchronously or asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| thread     | Integer | 1                 | It only works for data loading locally, i.e., `load_mode='local'` or in the standalone version; It defines the number of threads used for data loading. The max value is `50`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

```{note}
- In the cluster version, the specified execution mode (defined by `execute_mode`) determines whether to import data to online or offline storage when the `LOAD DATA INFILE` statement is executed. For the standalone version, there is no difference in storage mode and the `deep_copy` option is not supported.

- As metioned in the above table, online execution mode only supports append input mode.

- When `deep_copy=false`, OpenMLDB doesn't support to modify the data in the soft link. Therefore, if the current offline data comes from a soft link, `append` import is no longer supported. Moreover, if current connection is soft copy, using the hard copy with `overwrite` will not delete the data of the soft connection.

```

```{warning} INFILE Path
:class: warning

In the cluster version，if `load_mode='cluster'`，the reading of the `INFILE` path is done by a batch job. If it is a relative path, it needs to be an accessible path. However, in a production environment, the execution of batch jobs is usually scheduled by a yarn cluster. As a result, it is not deterministic that which batch job will actually perform the task. In a testing environment, if it's multi-machine deployment, it is also unable to determine where the batch job is running.

Therefore, you are suggested to use absolute paths. In the stand-alone version, the local file path starts with `file://`. In the production environment, it is recommended to use a file system such as *HDFS*.

```
## SQL Statement Template

```sql
LOAD DATA INFILE 'file_name' INTO TABLE 'table_name' OPTIONS (key = value, ...);
```

### Example

The following sql example imports data from a file `data.csv` into a table `t1` using online storage. `data.csv` uses `,` as the column separator.

```sql
set @@execute_mode='online';
LOAD DATA INFILE 'data.csv' INTO TABLE t1 OPTIONS( delimiter = ',' );
```

The following SQL example imports data from file `data.csv` into table `t1`. `data.csv` uses `,` as the column delimiter. The null value will be replaced by a string "NA".

```sql
LOAD DATA INFILE 'data.csv' INTO TABLE t1 OPTIONS( delimiter = ',', null_value='NA');
```

The following example shows an example of soft copy.
```sql
set @@execute_mode='offline';
LOAD DATA INFILE 'data_path' INTO TABLE t1 OPTIONS(deep_copy=false);
```

## Hive Support

### Hive Data Format

We support the Hive data format below，others are unsupported(e.g. Binary).

| OpenMLDB Data Format | Hive Data Format |
| -------------------- | ---------------- |
| BOOL                 | BOOLEAN          |
| SMALLINT             | SMALLINT         |
| INT                  | INT              |
| BIGINT               | BIGINT           |
| FLOAT                | FLOAT            |
| DOUBLE               | DOUBLE           |
| DATE                 | DATE             |
| TIMESTAMP            | TIMESTAMP        |

### Enable Hive Support

To support Hive, we need Hive dependencies and Hive conf.

#### Hive dependencies in Spark

[OpenMLDB Spark](../../../tutorial/openmldbspark_distribution.md) v0.6.7 and above have the Hive dependencies. If you use other Spark release, you should build Hive dependencies in spark, dependencies are in `assembly/target/scala-xx/jars`. Add them to Spark class path.

```
./build/mvn -Pyarn -Phive -Phive-thriftserver -DskipTests clean package
```

#### Hive Conf

We support connect Hive by metastore service.

- spark.conf

	You can set `spark.hadoop.Hive.metastore.uris` in Spark conf. 
	- taskmanager.properties: add `spark.hadoop.Hive.metastore.uris=thrift://...` in `spark.default.conf`, then restart the taskmanager
	- CLI: add it in ini conf, use `--spark_conf` to start the CLI, ref [Spark Client Configuration](../../client_config/client_spark_config.md).

- Hive-site.xml:

	You can set `Hive.metastore.uris` in `Hive-site.xml` and add it to Spark home `conf/`.

	The `Hive-site.xml` example:
	```
	<configuration>
	<property>
		<name>Hive.metastore.uris</name>
		<!--Make sure that <value> points to the Hive Metastore URI in your cluster -->
		<value>thrift://localhost:9083</value>
		<description>URI for client to contact metastore server</description>
	</property>
	</configuration>
	```

## CSV Source Data Format

We support csv and parquet，but be careful with the csv format. Here is an example.

```
c1, c2
,
"",""
ab,cd
"ef","gh"
null,null
```
The first row in csv data is two blank values.
- cluster mode: `null`, whatever the null_value is.
- local mode: empty string, see [issue3015](https://github.com/4paradigm/OpenMLDB/issues/3015)。

The second row in csv data is two double quotation marks.
- cluster mode: default quote is`"`, so it's two empty strings.
- local mode: default quote is`\0`, so it's two strings of two double quotation marks. You can set quote to `"` in local mode，but escape rule is different with Spark, `""` means `"`，see[issue3015](https://github.com/4paradigm/OpenMLDB/issues/3015).
